Getting started 
A Raspberry Pi device is a compact computer that is commonly used in two main ways: either as a desktop computer or as a headless (remote) computer



Raspberry Pi devices are available in several series:

    Raspberry Pi single-board computers (SBC). Classic or 'flagship' Raspberry Pi devices that you can connect to a monitor, keyboard, and mouse like a desktop computer.

    Raspberry Pi Zero. A smaller version of flagship Raspberry Pi devices with fewer USB ports and lower power consumption.

    Raspberry Pi keyboard computers. Devices that have the computer built into a keyboard case, designed to be plugged into a monitor and mouse.

    Raspberry Pi compute modules. Small system-on-module versions of Raspberry Pi computers designed for industrial and embedded applications.

    Raspberry Pi Pico. A microcontroller board that uses Raspberry Pi microcontrollers (RP2040 or RP2350).



Hardware prerequisites


    Boot media with an OS installed on it.

    For a desktop setup, input and output peripherals, listed in Equipment.

    For a headless setup, another computer and a network connection.

    A power supply. For guidance, see Power supply.

Additionally, you can use:

    A Raspberry Pi case. This helps to protect your Raspberry Pi device from damage or from short-circuiting if it’s placed on a metal surface.

    An Ethernet (RJ45) cable to connect your Raspberry Pi to a wired network. You don’t need this to connect to a wireless network. You can connect to Wi-Fi with its SSID and password instead.


Configuration methods


There are several ways to configure your Raspberry Pi settings. While each method uses a different interface, they typically function by modifying /boot/firmware/config.txt and other relevant configuration files. The three main configuration methods are:

    Desktop graphical user interface (GUI)

    Interactive raspi-config text user interface (TUI)

    Direct command-line interface (CLI)



 Instead of Control Centre, Raspberry Pi OS Bookworm uses a configuration tool called Raspberry Pi Configuration. 




What is config.txt?
nstead of the BIOS found on a conventional PC, Raspberry Pi devices use a configuration file called config.txt. The GPU reads config.txt before the Arm CPU and Linux initialise. Raspberry Pi OS looks for this file in the boot partition, located at /boot/firmware/.

You can edit config.txt directly from your Raspberry Pi OS installation. You can also remove the storage device and edit files in the boot partition, including config.txt, from a separate computer.

Changes to config.txt only take effect after a reboot. You can view the current active settings using the following commands:

vcgencmd get_config <config>

    displays a specific config value, e.g. vcgencmd get_config arm_freq
vcgencmd get_config int

    lists all non-zero integer config options (non-zero)
vcgencmd get_config str

    lists all non-null string config options

Note
	Not all config settings can be retrieved using vcgencmd.

Some legacy config.txt options are no longer officially supported. These are listed in Legacy config.txt options and aren’t included in this article.



